README.md, before:

# pyanakit
DataToolbox is a versatile data analysis toolkit with a user-friendly GUI. Simplify your data tasks with pyanakit.

## Data Analysis GUI with PCA and *KMeans*

### Overview
This project features a graphical user interface (GUI) for performing data analysis using Principal Component Analysis (PCA) *and KMeans clustering*. It is designed for users who want to analyze their datasets visually without deep programming expertise. 

### Features
- *Load and parse data using customizable separators.*
- Visualize data through heatmaps and PCA plots.
- *Apply KMeans clustering and* visualize clusters on PCA plots.
- Interactive GUI built with Tkinter.

### Requirements
- Python 3.x (must be installed)
- Packages (explain in the next step):
  - matplotlib
  - numpy
  - scikit-learn
  - scipy
  - seaborn
  - statsmodels
  - tkinter (usually included with Python)

## Installation 

### Step 1: Download Application
1. Open a command line interface (e.g. Git Bash) 
2. Navigate to the folder where you want to save the application. Replace the path with your desired directory: 
```bash
cd C:/Path/to/directory
```
2. Clone the repository / Download the application using the following command: 
```bash 
git clone https://github.com/Pastfran/pyanakit.git
```
### Step 2: Install required Packages: 
If the required packages are not already installed, you cann add them using this command: 
```bash
pip install matplotlib numpy pandas scikit-learn scipy seaborn statsmodels
```

## Starting the Application 
1. Open your command line interface (e.g. Windows PowerShell, Anaconda PowerShell).
2. Navigate to the folder where the application is located and into the "src" directory. Replace the path accordingly:
```bash	
cd C:/Path/to/file/src
```
3. Ensure Python is properly set up on your system and recognized in the Command Prompt. You can check this by typing: 
```bash 
python --version
```	
- If Python is installed and the version displayed, you are good to go. If not, ensure Python is installed and added to your system's PATH. 
4. Launch the application with using this command:
```bash	
python gui.py
```
### Getting Started
Once the application is open: 
- Load your data using the "Load Data" button. 
- Choose your desired analysis/visualisation option (e.g. PCA).
- Explore the generated visuals and uncover patterns in your data.

Commit message:

added sample data to examples, added instructions to readme.md

README.md, after:

# pyanakit
DataToolbox is a versatile data analysis toolkit with a user-friendly GUI. Simplify your data tasks with pyanakit.

## Data Analysis GUI with PCA and *KMeans*

### Overview
This project features a graphical user interface (GUI) for performing data analysis using Principal Component Analysis (PCA) *and KMeans clustering*. It is designed for users who want to analyze their datasets visually without deep programming expertise. 

### Features
- *Load and parse data using customizable separators.*
- Visualize data through heatmaps and PCA plots.
- *Apply KMeans clustering and* visualize clusters on PCA plots.
- Interactive GUI built with Tkinter.

### Requirements
- Python 3.x (must be installed)
- Packages (explain in the next step):
  - matplotlib
  - numpy
  - scikit-learn
  - scipy
  - seaborn
  - statsmodels
  - tkinter (usually included with Python)

## Installation 

### Step 1: Download Application
1. Open a command line interface (e.g. Git Bash) 
2. Navigate to the folder where you want to save the application. Replace the path with your desired directory: 
```bash
cd C:/Path/to/directory
```
2. Clone the repository / Download the application using the following command: 
```bash 
git clone https://github.com/Pastfran/pyanakit.git
```
### Step 2: Install required Packages: 
If the required packages are not already installed, you cann add them using this command: 
```bash
pip install matplotlib numpy pandas scikit-learn scipy seaborn statsmodels
```

## Starting the Application 
1. Open your command line interface (e.g. Windows PowerShell, Anaconda PowerShell).
2. Navigate to the folder where the application is located and into the `src` folder. Replace the path accordingly:
```bash	
cd C:/Path/to/file/src
```
3. Ensure Python is properly set up on your system and recognized in the Command Prompt. You can check this by using the command below. \
If Python is installed and the version displayed, you are good to go. If not, ensure Python is installed and added to your system's PATH.
```bash 
python --version
```	
4. Launch the application with using this command:
```bash	
python gui.py
```
### Getting Started
Once the application is open: 
- Load your data using the "Load Data" button. 
- Choose your desired analysis/visualisation option (e.g. PCA).
- Explore the generated visuals and uncover patterns in your data. 

## Sample Datasets
To help to gett started quickly, we have included sample datasets for testing the application. These datasets are included in the `examples` folder. 
Navigate and select the sample data via the GUI. \
These datasets demonstrate the various features of the tool, allowing you to explore different plots and visualize how they represent your data, making them ideal for experimentation and learning.
